1 June 2024 
WEL COMEBenefits Summary 
Contact  Information  
Human  Resources 
www.hr.fsu.edu  
(850) 644 -6034
Benefits Office 
www.hr.fsu.edu/Benefits  
insurance@fsu.edu  
retirement@fsu.edu  
(850) 644 -4015.Welcome to Florida Stat e University! 
FSU is a unique and preeminent public research institution with the 
cohesive community of a much smaller school. Ranked in the top 25 
among  national  public  universities  by U.S. News  & World  Report,  we 
continue  to uphold  a tradition  of excellence  in academics,  research, 
student  success,  and diversity  and inclusion.  Through  the com bined 
efforts  of our faculty  and staff,  FSU continues  to break  records  and 
shatter  ceilings.  Our success  begins  with  our people,  and we are 
committed to maximizing what it means to be an FSU employee.  
FSU provides  a wide  array  of comprehensive  benefits  that include 
health,  professional  development,  financial,  fringe,  and wellness 
resources.  This Benefits  Summary  provides  you with  an overview  of 
FSU’s  available  benefits  and outlines  the scope  of advantages  of 
employment at FSU.  
Our Benef its offic e can answer questions that you may hav e about the 
benef its availab le to you. Our website, www.hr.fsu.edu , also provides a 
wide variety of information about plans, vendors, and benefits available 
to th e campus community. 
Benefits  Summary  Content  
Health  Plans ................................ ....................  2 
Prescription  Plan ................................ ............  2 
Flexible  Spending  Accounts  ............................  3 
Vision  Insurance  ................................ .............  3 
Dental  Insurance  ................................ ............  4 
Life Insurance  ................................ .................  4 
State  Supplemental  Plans  ...............................  5 
Additional  Supplemental  Plans  ......................  5 
Leave  and Holidays  ................................ .........  6 Paid  Time  Off ................................ ..................  6 
FMLA  ................................ ..............................  6 
Additional  Benefits  ................................ .........  7 
Employee  Assistance  Program  .......................  7 
Employer  Retirement  Plans  ...........................  8 
Voluntary  Retirement  Plans  ...........................  8 
OPS Retirement  Plan ................................ ...... 8 
2 
HEALTHINSURANCEHEALTH  INSURANCE  HEALTH  INSURANCE  OPTIONS  
ELIGIBILITY  
Health  insurance  is available  to Executive  Service  (AEX), 
University Support Personnel System (USPS), Faculty (CTP), 
Administrative and Professional (A&P), and eligible  OPS 
employees.  OPS employees  that work  an average  of 30 
hours  or more per  week  (0.75  FTE)  at the point  of hire, 
through a Qualifying Status Change (QSC), or over a defined 
measurement  period,  are eligible  for State  of Florida 
benefits.  
ENROLLMENT 
New  employees  have  60 days  from  the date  of hire to en- 
roll into State of Florida insurance plans. Premiums are paid 
one month  in advance  of coverage.  Eligible  employees  can 
enroll  through  People  First , the  administrator  of state 
insurances.  Changes  can be  made  when  experiencing  a 
Qualifying  Status  Change  (QSC)  event  or as  a part of the 
annual Open Enrollment period.  
EFFECTIVE DATE 
Health and Prescription coverage can become effective the 
first of the month  following  the month  of enrollment. 
Employees can enroll beginning the  day after their hire  date.  PPO  OPTION  
The PPO  health option provides the option to receive care 
from  any doctor  or healthcare  provider.  The cost for care  is 
lower  when  in-network  providers  are used.  Except  for most 
preventative  care,  services  are not covered  until  the annual 
deductible  is met.  There  is a standard  and a High  Deductible 
Health Plan (HDHP) option available.  
HMO  OPTION  
The HMO  health option provides coverage for in -network 
providers and facilities, and coverage for health emer - 
gencies. The entire cost of the  non-network health care 
received is the member’s responsibility. HMO companies  
vary by region . There is a High Deductible Health Plan 
(HDHP) option and a standard  health plan option  available.  
PRESCRIPTION  DRUG  PLAN  
Offered by Optum Rx and provides benefits for all 
health insurance options. PPO members must use the 90- 
day supply fill option for maintenance drugs. This can be 
filled by mail order or at a participating pharmacy.  
HEALTH  PLAN  SUMMARY  COMPARISON  CHART  
Your Costs:  Standard  High Deductible  (Pair with Health  Savings  Account)
HMO  PPO HMO  and PPO PPO Only 
Network  Only Network  Out of Network  Network  Out of Network  
Annual  Deductible  None  $250 I $500 Single I Family  $750 I $1,500  
Single I Family $1,500 I $3,000 
Single I Family  $2,500 I $5,000 
Single I Family 
Global  In-Network  Annual  Out- 
of-Pocket  Maximum  $9,450 I $18,900 
per indiv I per family 
(pharmacy  and medical)  $9,450 I $18,900 
per indiv I per family 
(pharmacy  and medical)  N/A $4,600 I $9,200 (PPO) 
$3,000 I $6,000 (HMO) 
per indiv I per family 
(pharmacy  and medical)  N/A 
Preventive  Care 
Based on age and gender  No charge  No charge;  no deductible  Amount  between  charge and out-of- 
network  allowance;  no deductible  No charge;  no deductible  Amount  between  charge and out-of- 
network  allowance;  no deductible  
Primary  Care $20 copayment  $15 copayment  40% of out-of-network  allowance  plus 
the amount  between  the charge and 
the out-of-network  allowance  Deductible then  20% of  network  
allowed amount  Deductible  then 40% of out-of-network  
allowance  plus amount  between  charge 
and out-of-network allowance  
Specialist  $40 copayment  $25 copayment  
Urgent  Care $25 copayment  $25 copayment  $25 copayment  Deductible  then 20% of out-of- 
network  allowance  Deductible  then 20% of out-of-network  
allowance  Emergency  Room  $100 copayment  $100 copayment  $100 copayment  
Hospital  Stay $250 copayment  20% after $250 copayment  40% after $500 copayment  plus the  
amount  between  charge  and out-of- 
network allowance  Deductible then  20% of  network  
allowed amount  Deductible,  $1,000  copay,  then 40% o
out-of-network  allowance  plus amount
between  charge  and out -of-network  
allowance  
Prescriptions  
Generic Drugs  I Preferred Brand I  
Non-Preferred  Brand  $7 I $30 I $50 
Network  Retail (up to 30‐day  supply)  Pay in full; file  claim  for 
reimbursement  After paying deductible,  
30% I 30% I 30%  
Network  Retail and Mail Order Pay in full; file claim  for 
reimbursement  $14 I $60 I $100 
Mail Order to Participating  90‐Day  Retail (up to 90‐Day  Supply)  
Monthly  Premiums  Premiums are deducted  a Month in  Advance ( e.g. December  for January  coverage)  
USPS I A&P I Faculty  $50.00  Single  $180 Family  $15.00  Single  $64.30  Family  
Executive  Service  $8.34 Single  $30.00  Family  $8.34 Single  $30.00  Family  
Spouse  Program  $30.00  ($15 each employee)  $30.00  ($15 each employee)  SPOUSE  PROGRAM  HEALTH  SAVINGS  ACCOUNT  (HSA)  
The Spouse Program provides family health insurance at a 
reduced premium  for two employees  w ho are married  to 
each other. One spouse serves as primary on the account. 
Each  full-time  spouse  pays  $15 per month  for family 
coverage. To enroll, you and your spouse must 
complete and sign the Election Form and submit the 
completed form to the address on the form or submit 
the form on-line through People First.  
SHARED  SAVINGS  PROGRAM  
The Shared  Savings  Program  is a rewards  program  available 
to employees and their dependents enrolled in a State of 
Florida health plan. The purpose of the Shared Savings 
Program is to reduce healthcare costs for the State of 
Florida  and to reward employees  for making  informed  and 
cost-effective decisions about healthcare  services . 
Employees  can earn  rewards  by using  HealthCare  Bluebook  
and SurgeryPlus . Earned rewards can be used to pay for 
eligible medical, dental, and visi on expenses.  
Enrollment and  changes  are made through  People  First . 
FLEXIBLE  SPENDING  ACCOUNTS  (FSA)  
The state  offers  three  Flexible Spending  Accounts  (FSAs)  to 
eligible employees that provide a tax break on predictable 
out-of-pocket  costs.  Pre-tax contributions  are made  during 
the calendar year, January 1 - December 31. Participants 
receive a Chard Snyder Benny Card to use for eligible 
expenses.  
Enrollment and  changes  are made through  People  First . 
FSA CONTRIBUTIONS  A Health Savings Account (HSA)  is a tax-advantaged 
account employees should have if enrolled in a High 
Deductible  Health Plan (HDHP).  Pre-tax contributions are 
available to pay for eligible healthcare expenses like 
deductibles and coinsurance.  Employees will receive the 
state’s monthly deposit of $41.66 for single coverage and 
$83.33 for family coverage. Unused funds roll over each 
year and are portable once state employment ends.
SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM OPTIONS 
HEALTHCARE BLUEBOOK 
Healthcare  Bluebook  is an online  transparency  website  to 
shop  for healthcare  services,  facilities,  and providers. 
Rewards can be earned for choosing services that are rated 
green and provide a cost savings  to the  state.  
SURGERY PLUS 
Surgery  Plus is a benefit  that provides  pre-planned,  non- 
emergency  surgical  services.  Surgical  procedures  will be 
covered by State of Florida insurance; however, Surgery Plus 
bundles services together for one bundled  payment.  
HEALTH REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNT (HRA) 
With  an HRA  account,  employees  receive  reward 
contributions  that are earned from  participating  in the 
shared  savings  program.  Funds  earned can be  used  to pay 
for eligible  medical,  dental,  vision,  and prescription  drug 
expenses.  
FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNT OPTIONS 
HEALTHCARE FSA 
A HealthCare  FSA is an account  that eligible  employees 
contribute  pre-tax  money to  in order  to pay for eligible 
medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug expenses.  
DEPENDENT CARE FSA 
A Dependent Care FSA is an account that eligible employees 
can use to reimburs e eligibl e services t o care for children 
age 13 and under, or an older depe ndent who needs 
supervised care. 
LIMITED PURPOSE FSA 
A Limited  Purpose  FSA is an account  that employees 
enrolled  in a High  Deductible  Health  Plan  (HDHP)  can 
contribute  pre-tax  money to  for eligible  dental,  vision,  and 
preventative  services  not covered  by a Health  Savings 
Account (HSA).  
VISION  INSURANCE  
Employees have access to competitive vision coverage  at affordable rates through Humana Vision . The plan provides in - 
network  coverage  and non-network  allowances  for glasses  and contacts.  Employees  receive  a wholesale  discount  on frames 
every 24 months and a glasses lens or contact l ens benefit every 12 months. Enrollment and election changes are made 
through People First . 
VISION  INSURANCE  MONTHLY PREMIUM  
Employee  Only  Employee  + Spouse  Employee  + Child(ren)  Employee  + Family  
Humana  Vision  $5.92  $11.68  $11.56  $18.16   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
F L E X I B L E S P E N D I N G A C C O U N T S 
Minimum  Maximum  Carry  Over  
HealthCare  $60 $3,200  $640
Limited  Purpose  $60 $3,200  $640
Dependent  Care  $60 $5,000  NONE  DENTAL  INSURANCE  
The State  of Florida  offers  comprehensive  dental  coverage  through  a variety  of providers . Coverage  is effective  the first day of the 
month following one month’s full premium deduction. Enrollment and election changes are completed by the employee 
through People First . 
DENTAL  PLAN  COMPARISON CHART  
Type  of Dental  Plan  Plan 
Code  Plan  Name  Monthly  Premiums  
Employe  
e 
Only  Employee  
+ 
Spouse  Employee  
+ 
Child(ren)  Employee  
+ Family  
Prepaid  Dental  Plan 
•Pays  benefits  only  when  you use network  providers  
•No deductible  or annual  maximum
•Most  preventive  care  at no charge  
•Pay a fixed  copayment  for other dental  procedures
Orthodontia:  Covered for  adults  and children  
(excluding  Preventive PPO).  4034  CIGNA  Dental  $22.81 $44.94 $53.59 $68.46
4025  Sun Life Dental  $14.93  $25.17  $33.26  $43.54  
4044  Humana  HD205  Dental  $12.64 $21.20  $23.00  $32.98  
PPO  Dental  Plan  
•Receive  care  from  any dentist  
•Your  cost is  lower  when  you use network  dentists  
• You generally have an annual deductible to meet  
before  the plan starts paying benefits,  and then you  
pay partof  the cost for the services you receive.
• Orthodontia: Covered for adults and children
(excluding  Preventive PPO).  4023  Ameritas  Preventive  $21.64  $40.92 $43.80  $64.16  
4094  Humana  Preventive  $20.52  $37.98  $42.44  $61.60  
4033  MetLife  Preventive  $18.32  $33.86  $37.84  $54.94  
4022  Ameritas  Standard  $31.64  $59.24  $66.32  $96.56  
4092  Humana  Standard  $30.64  $56.70  $63.36  $91.98  
4032  MetLife  Standard  $36.24  $67.04 $74.90  $108.76  
Indemnity  with  PPO  Dental  Plan 
•Receive  care  from  any dentist  
•Your  cost is lower  when  you use network  dentists  
•You generally have  an annual  deductible  to meet  
before  the plan starts paying benefits, and then
you pay a percentage  of the cost for the services
you receive.  
•Orthodontia:  Child  only orthodontia  covered  by Sun Life.4021  Ameritas  Indemnity  $47.24  $87.64  $99.80  $144.08  
4090  Humana  Indemnity  $45.76  $84.66  $94.60  $137.34  
4031  MetLife  Indemnity  $46.16  $85.38  $95.42  $138.52  
4074  Sun Life Indemnity  PPO $43.55  $83.61  $98.83  $130.35  
Indemnity  PPO  Dental  Plan 
• Receive  care  from  any dentist  
• You have  a deductible  to meet  and then  pay part of 
the cost for the services you receive.4084  Humana Schedule  B $14.74  $21.96  $23.30  $37.10  
LIFE INSURANCE  
The State of Florida offers group term life insurance to eligible employees and their eligible dependents. Life insurance policies 
are offered by Securian Financial . Additional benefits and services, such as legal services, life events, and milestone services, 
are available to plan participants. Enrollment and election changes are completed by the  employee through People First . 
LIFE INSURANCE  OPTIONS  
BASIC LIFE INSURANCE 
FSU covers the cost of this life insurance policy for all 
full-time employees. Coverage is valued 
at $25,000. Part- 
time employees pay a prorated amount and OPS pay the 
full premium. Full-time employees are automatically 
enrolled upon employment. 
OPTIONAL LIFE INSURANCE 
Employees enrolled in basic life insurances (not OPS) 
can also elect additional coverage between 1 and 7 times 
your salary, up to a maximum of $1,000,000. Medical 
underwriting may be required. The cost is based on age 
and the amount selected. This benefit is paid by the 
employee.  DEPENDENT SPOUSE LIFE INSURNACE 
Employees can elect dependent spouse life coverage. Two 
benefit amounts are available: $15,000 and $20,000. 
Coverage is guaranteed issue if elected when spouse 
is first eligible, otherwise, medical underwriting is 
required. This benefit is paid by the employee. 
DEPENDENT CHILD LIFE INSURANCE 
Employees enrolled in basic life insurance can also 
elect dependent child life insurance. The benefit for this 
coverage is $10,000 and covers all eligible children. This is 
paid for by the employee.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 DENTAL AND LIFE INSURANCE S U P P L E M E N T A L P L A N S SUPPLEMENTAL  INSURANCE  PLANS  
The following  supplemental  benefit  plans are fully  funded  by the employee.  Costs  vary by plan  and coverage  level.  Coverage 
is effective  on the first day of the month  following  one full month’s  premium  deduction.  Individual  enrollment  is necessary.  
SUPPLEMENTAL  INSURANCE  PLAN  OPTIONS  
ACCIDENT  PLANS  
Accident plans help pay for expenses when an employee 
becomes injured during a covered accident. Coverage is 
available through Colonial Life . 
CANCER  PLANS  
Dependin g on the coverage chosen, this policy helps to 
offset some of the expenses of a cancer diagnosis and 
treatment. Coverage is available from AFLAC  through 
Capital Insurance Company and Colonial Life . 
INTENSIVE  CARE  PLANS  
Coverage is available from AFLAC  through Capital 
Insurance  Agency.  This policy  has a daily  benefit  for stays  in 
a hospital intensive care unit.  EXECUTIVE  SERVICE  DISABILITY  PLAN  
Executive  Service  employees  are automatically  enrolled  in a 
state disability policy that FSU pays. This policy provides 
one year of income replacement at a reduced rate in the 
event of a disability.  
SHORT  TERM  DISABILITY  
Coverage  is available  through  Colonial  Life. This policy  helps 
supplement your inco me during a short -term disability. 
Depending on the level of coverage selected, it can pay up 
to 66% of your  income.  
HOSPITALIZATION  PLANS  
Coverage is available from Cigna  through Capital Insurance 
Agency, and New Era  through State Securities Corp. This 
policy pays daily payments while in the hospital.  
ADDITIONAL  SUPPLEMENTAL  INSURANCE  PLANS  
The following  supplemental  benefit  plans  are fully  paid  through  post -tax payroll  deductions by  the employee.  Costs  vary  by 
plan  and coverage  level  chosen.  Individual  enrollment  in the following  plans is  through  the company  that it is offered with. 
The effective date of coverage is determined at enrollment. Most plans are offered guaranteed issue to eligible new 
employees within 60 days of employment.  
ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL INSURANCE PLAN OPTIONS 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT offers low  
cost supplemental coverage that provides benefits in the 
event  of an accidental  death  or dismemberment  (including 
family members)  for one low group  rate.  Guaranteed  issue 
to all new  full-time employees. Enroll  with Gabor Financial  
Solutions . 
LONG  TERM  DISABILITY  provides an inexpensive way to 
help protect your income, your family, and yourself from 
loss due to an unexpected illness or injury. Replaces up to 
60% of your income and begins after either 30 or 90 days. 
Enroll with Gabor Financial Solutions . 
LONG TERM CARE provides assistance needed if you 
become  chronically  ill and are unable  to handle  activities  of 
daily  living.  Covered  services  include  assistance  received  at 
home, community adult day care center, hospice care 
facility,  assisted  living  facility,  or nursing  home.  Coverage  is 
portable. Enroll with Gabor Financial Solutions . 
CRITICAL  ILLNESS  p r o v i d e s   assistance   with   paying  
medical, travel, and treatment expenses for critical 
illnesses that are not covered by health insurance. Enroll 
with Colonial Life . LEGAL  SERVICES  AND  IDENTITY  PROTECTION  is an 
option available with US Legal. Services include legal 
advice, estate planning, custody, credit monitoring and 
other identity and legal services. Enroll with US Legal . 
5 GABOR FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS LIFE INSURANCE 
OPTIONS  
WHOLE LIFE with Mass Mutual offers permanent 
protection. It guarantees a death benefit, level premium  
and increases  in cash  value.  It is offered  to benefit  eligible  
employees on a guaranteed issue basis or simplified 
underwriting  up to $250,000. You  can also get coverage for 
your spouse. Enroll with Gabor Financial Solutions . 
GROUP TERM LIFE is underwritten by Standard 
Insurance Company.  Guaranteed issue with no medical 
exam during the first 60 days of employment. Coverage  
is up to four  times  your  salary  with  a maximum  of 
$200,000. Spouses are also eligible for guaranteed 
coverage up to $50,000. Enroll with Gabor Financial  
Solutions.  
TERM LIFE is underwritten by Symetra Life Insurance 
Company. Employees can choose a term of 10, 15, 20 or 
30 years. It includes advance access if diagnosed with a 
terminal illness. Enroll with Gabor Financial Solutions   L E A V E LEAVE  AND  HOLIDAYS  
FSU offers generous leave benefits to our benefit -eligible Executive Service, Faculty, A&P, and USPS employees.  Eligible 
employees begin to accrue Annual and Sick Leave  hours upon employment. Leave accrued is credited at the end of the 
pay period or the  last day an employee is on the  payr oll, due to separation prior  to the end of the pay  period. Accrual for 
part-time employees is based on the number of hours in paid status during the pay period.  
SICK  AND  ANNUAL  LEAVE  ACCRUALS  
ANNUAL  LEAVE  (Vacation)  - Faculty  (12 month ), A&P,  and USPS  
Annual Leave  is accrued by eligible employees in pay status and is credited on 
the last day of the pay period.  The accrual  rate is prorated  when  on leave  without 
pay and for part -time employees.  
SICK  LEAVE  - Faculty,  A&P,  and USPS  
Sick Leave  is accrued by eligible employees in pay status and is credited on the 
last day of the pay period. The accrual rate is prorated when on leave without 
pay and for part -time employees.  
EXECUTIVE SERVICE  LEAVE  
Annual  and sick leave  is accrued by eligible  Executive  Service  employees and is credited on the  last day of the pay period. 
The accrual rate is prorated when on leave without pay and for part -time employees.  
SICK  LEAVE  POOL  - Faculty,  A&P,  and USPS  
Employees who join the Sick Leave Pool  may request and receive up to 480 hours in a 12 -month period f or their serious 
illness or severe  injury after using  all earned sick, annual (vacation), personal  holiday and compensatory leave. Members 
may  be granted  a lifetime  maximum  of 960 hours  during  their  employment  with  FSU.  The use of hours  from  the Sick Leave 
Pool is for a member employee's serious or catastrophic health condition. Applicants must meet eligibility requirements 
to be accepted.  
PERSONAL  HOLIDAY  - USPS  
Each full -time USPS employee is entitled to one personal holiday  each University fiscal year with appropriate accrual for 
less than full -time employment. T he personal holiday will be credited to eligible employees on July 1 of each year to be 
taken  by June  30 of the following  year.  The personal  holiday  must  be used  in full and can’t  be split  for use on multiple  days.  
ADMINISTRATIVE  LEAVE  - Executive  Service,  Faculty,  A&P,  and USPS  
Administrative  Leave  may  be granted  to Executive  Service, Faculty,  A&P  or USPS  employees to  cover  absences from  work 
for specific  events  such  as: death  of a family  member,  legal  matters,  military  situations,  emergency  closure,  and any other 
closure as authorized by the University President. With absences for these specific purposes, an employee is not  
required to use any type of accrued or earned leave to cover the absence.  
PAID  TIME  OFF (PTO)  - Postdoctoral  Scholars  
PTO  is granted to postdoctoral scholars and accrues at a rate of 4 hours each bi -weekly pay period while i n full -time pay 
status. Postdoctoral scholars less than full time will accrue a prorated amount. It may be used for vacation, personal 
reasons, illness or any other purpose.  
PARENTAL  LEAVE  - Executive  Service,  Faculty,  A&P,  USPS,  and OPS 
The University  offers  up to six months  of unpaid  leave  for the birth  or adoption  of a child.  The parenta l leave  may 
run concurrently with Family Medical Leave entitlements.  
PAID  PARENTAL  LEAVE  - Faculty  
The University  offers  faculty  members  (excluding  University  School  Instructors)  a one-time  paid  leave,  for up to six months, 
for the birth or adoption of a child. The parental leave may run concurrently with Family Medical Leave entitlements.  
FAMILY  MEDICAL  LEAVE  ACT (FMLA)  
FMLA  is a federal law enacted to assist employees in maintaining a balance between work and family responsibilities. It 
provides eligible employees unpaid job -protected leave for qualifying events. All FSU employees are eligible for Family 
and Medical Leave (FM L), including OPS employees, as long as they meet federal work requirements. Eligibility is 
established by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) principles for determining compensable hours for work. The 
University uses a ‘rolling’ 12 -month period rather tha n a calendar or academic year.  
6 Annual     Sick  
Leave     Leave  
Faculty  (12 Month)  6.769  4 Bi-Weekly  Accruals  A & P 6.769  4 
Executive  Service  9.195  5 
USPS  (Months  of Service)  
0 - 6 4 4 
7-60 4 4 
61 - 120  5 4 
Over  120 6 4 EMPLOYEE TUITION  SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM  
Florida State University provides the opportunity for the University's employees to take up to two courses or six hours of 
course work per academic term tuition -free. To be eligible, employees must be a full -time (1.0 FTE), salaried (AEX, A&P, 
Faculty and USPS) employee and, if currently enrolled, be in good academic standing.  
EMPLOYEE DEPENDENT  TUITION  SCHOLARSHIP  
Florida State  University provides dependent children of  full-time  faculty and  staff  with a  scholarship  opportunity  to obtain 
tuition  assistance  for an undergraduate  education  at FSU.  Human  Resources  will choose  at random  from  a pool  of applicants 
a limited number of eligible dependent children of qualified faculty and  staff.  
TRAINING  & ORGANIZATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  
Florida State University's Office of Training & Organizational Development (TOD)  is responsible for assisting in the 
achievement of the Uni versity’s strategic goals and objectives through a focused delivery of workplace training and 
personal development. Employees are encouraged to take advantage of various training opportunities.  
PAYROLL  
All employees are required to participate in the University’s Direct Deposit  program as a condition of employment. New 
employees  must  sign up for mandatory  direct deposit  when  they  complete  their  onboarding  process.  Changes  can be made 
at any time through OMNI Employee Self  Service.  
FITNESS  FACILITIES  
Faculty  and staff  may  purchase  annual  memberships  to the Leach  Recreation  Center  and the  Fitness  and Movement  Clinic. 
Payroll deduction is available.  
FACULTY/STAFF  MEAL PLANS  
Faculty and  staff  can save  at every on -campus meal  by purchasing  a meal  plan , which  can be paid  for by payroll  deduction. 
Flexible meal plan options are ava ilable for as little as $6 per meal.  
PARKING  AND  TRANSPORTATION  
Parking  permits  are required  to park  on campus  24/7.  Permits  are issued  to a specific  individual  and may  not be transferred 
to another person. There are various permit types to provide equitable access to specific parking areas. Each permit is 
restricted  to the parking  location  that matches  the letter  on the permit  as assigned.  Employees  must  register  their  vehicle(s) 
by going online or visiting the Parking & Transportation Servi ces office.  
FLORIDA  PREPAID  COLLEGE PLAN  
A Florida Prepaid College Plan  allows employees to lock in college plan prices and prepay, on a bi -weekly deduction 
schedule,  the future  cost of college  tuition,  tuition  differential  fees,  local  fees,  and dormitory  housing.  Employees  can enroll 
into a Florida Prepaid account at anytime.  
FLORIDA  529 PLAN  
A Florida 529 Plan  is an investment account that provides a flexible and tax -free way to save for college expenses. 
Investment  earnings  are not taxed  as long  as they  are used  for qualified  educational  expenses.  Employees  can enroll  into a 
Florida 529 account at any time.  
EMPLOYEE  ASSISTANCE PROGRAM  
The Employee Assistance Program (EAP)  is a free, confidential program that provides a professional 
support  system  for faculty  and staff.  EAP is committed  to improving  the well-being  of FSU employees 
through a program that addresses personal and/or workplace di fficulties with the help of licensed 
mental health professionals. Employees have access to short -term counseling, supervisor consults, 
organizational  development  opportunities,  mediation  services,  and an emergency  loan  program.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
A D D I T I O N A B E N E F I T S EMPLOYER -SPONSORED  RETIREMENT  PLANS  
All Executive  Service, Faculty,  A&P,  and USPS  employees  participate  in a State  of Florida  retirement  program.  These  plans 
are primarily employer -funded accounts with employees making a mandatory 3% contribution regardless of the plan 
chosen. Plan participation is based on position type.  
Faculty  in the  College  of Medicine  are mandatory  SUSORP participants.  USPS  employees will  elect  to participate  in either 
the FRS Pension Plan or the FRS Investment Plan.  
Employee  Type  Retirement  Plan Vesting  Period  Enrollment  Form(s)  Enrollment  Deadline  
A&P,  Executive 
Service,  Faculty  SUSORP  None  ORP-ENROLL -1 90 days  from  hire date.  
FRS Pension  
FRS Investment  8 years  
1 year  ORP -ENROLL -1 and 
ELE-1-EZ The last business day of the  8th 
month  after  month  of hire.  
USPS  FRS Pension  
FRS Investment  8 years  
1 year  ELE-1-EZ The last business  day of the  8th 
month after month of hire.  
EMPLOYER -SPONSORED RETIREMENT PLAN OPTIONS  
FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM (FRS) PENSION PLAN  
The FRS Pension Plan  is a defined benefit plan. Participants are vested upon completion of 8 years of creditable service 
and eligible to receive a lifetime monthly benefit at retirement.  
FLORIDA  RETIREMENT  SYSTEM  (FRS)  INVESTMENT  PLAN  
The FRS Investment Plan  is a defined contribution plan. Participants are vested upon completion of 1 year of creditable 
service  and decide  how  to allocate  contributio ns among  offered  investment  funds.  The amount  of the retirement  benefit  is 
determined by the employer and employee contributions and the performance of the investment fund  choices.  
STATE  UNIVERSITY  SYSTEM  OPTIONAL  RETIREMENT  PROGRAM  (SUSORP)  
The SUSORP  is a defined  contribution  plan.  Participants  are vested  immediately  once  enrolled  and decide  which  approved 
SUSOR P provider  company , or companies,  to invest  their  funds.  The amount  of the retirement  benefit  is determined  by the 
employer and employee contributions and the performance of the investment funds.  
VOLUNTARY  RETIREMENT PLANS  
Florida State University offers all eligible employees the 
opportunity to participate in voluntary retirement plans . 
These  retirement  plans  offer  employees  the opportunity  to 
save pre -tax and post -tax money for retirement, up to the 
IRS limit for each plan type.  
Participation is voluntary and deposits are made through 
payroll  deduction.  Employees may enroll  and make  changes 
to contributions at any time.   VOLUNTARY  RETIREMENT  PLAN  OPTIONS  
IRS 2023  CONTRIBUTION  LIMIT  403(b) SAVINGS PLAN 
All employees can participat e in a volunta ry 403(b)  
Savings Plan . Contributions are payroll deduct ed on a pre- 
tax basis a nd are forwarde d to a participating investment 
company. 
ROTH 403(b) SAVINGS PLAN 
All employees  can participate  in a Roth  403(b)  Plan . 
Contributions are payroll deducted on a post-tax basis and  
are forwarded to a participating investment company.  
FLORIDA DEFERRED COMPENSATION 457 PLAN 
Employees may participate in a Deferred Compensation 
pre-tax or Roth 457 Plan. Enrollment is completed 
through one of the approved provider companies  or 
through the Florida Deferred Compensation Office.  
OPS EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLAN  
401(a)  FICA  ALTERNATIVE  PLAN  
Eligible Temporary employees who are not exempt  from social security taxes participate in the FICA Alternative Plan  
through Bencor. Employees are automatically enrolled and unenrolled based on their salary plan status. Participants 
contribute  7.5%  of their  wages  into a 401(a)  investment  account  instead  of paying  social  security  payroll  taxes.  The account 
is portable upon separation from the University or entering a position covered by the State of Florida Retirement 
prog ram.   
 
 
 
 
 
8 
RETIREMENTPLANS 
Age Contribution  
Limit  
< 50 $23,000 
50 < $30,500 